[ Music ]
>> A child with a disability, it is
different than the way we see it.
Again, earlier I mentioned
that school is a choice.
It wasn't mandatory.
So if a child had a severe disability, the
parents tend to keep the child at home.
They would not send to school.
And the school system was not equipped
to teach children with a disability.
So it is a new concept to have a child,
particular child with a severe disability
or developmental delay, to
have them in a school setting.
It is something that many families struggle
with, and have difficulty understanding.
I also should mention that there are some
things that we call a visible disability,
an invisible disability, and when it is
invisible disability, things such as ADHD,
attention deficit hyperactivity
disorder, it is very difficult for parents
to understand those kinds of disabilities.
And frequently what you see is the
parents are not really of a mind
to understand there is a disability.
Because the word disability itself translates
completely different in our language.
Disability is known for someone who
is, for instance, physically disabled.
Or cognitively disabled.
A lot of other things that, you
know, we recognize as having a delay.
Maybe, as I mentioned, invisible disability.
It is not recognized.
And families struggle understanding how
that is considered to be a disability.
So it has, you know, a completely
different connotation
than what we know here or how we see disability.
Transition is another aspect
that many families struggle with.
You know, in a way, it has a negative
connotation because usually here, as we say,
we want our children to, or young adults,
to transition into being independent.
That is, that alone, that
statement, it is, you know,
typically I find the parents
say independent from who?
From your own parents?
We came from a culture that kids
can stay home as long as they want.
It is seen as something positive to have the
kids at home, and young adults, you know, 25,
26, living at home, helping parents,
helping, you know, younger siblings.
It is something that is very
positive and very reinforced.
And that all has been shifted, reversed,
and here we say we want our kids to be
out of home at the age of 18 or so.
And so it is an idea that it is foreign to them.
And they struggle.
They struggle and they are not really open
minded to the whole services of a transition.
And sometimes when I sit in IEP and
individual education plan with a parent,
I see when we get o the part of the transition,
the parents are not really so much interested
in it just because transition
is not part of the culture.
It is not part of the, you know, parents would
rather have, you know, close by their kids.
Or their young adults.
And that support of the young siblings.
The younger ones.
So it is foreign term and you know, many
times they struggle to really understand
and comprehend what transition
means and what it stands for.
What is it supposed to do and all that?
But I see some parents that are really
open minded too, and explore opportunities
that the kids can receive through
transition, transition class.
But overwhelmingly, the majority I would
say, parents, it is a part of the services
that they really don't understand
or maybe sometimes they would
be kind of hesitant to explore.
[ Music ]